---
layout: devlog
title: ideas for the project
date: 2025-07-01
project: mm
---

## ideas

This whole idea was all mostly inspired by an idea I had for a dynamic inventory system. In the game, items would be classed into different categories, e.g. food, weapons, flowers, materials. Then, there would be a range of different *bag* items, another item category, that each can hold a few items of a certain category. The player would have a limited inventory space, maybe 5-10 slots for holding items and a left hand and right hand slot, and so would have to utilise these bags in order to carry a larger number of things. This means that the player must pick the categories of items they wish to take on their journeys, with different combinations being suited to different activities. For example, when hunting you may need to carry your weapons and medicine bags but when fishing you may need to sacrifice other bags to hold your fishing bag. I think that this would make for an interactive inventory interface that forces players to think carefully about what they need, adding strategic decision-making to an often overlooked feature. I imagine that these bags would be craftable, maybe requiring items from the category you're looking to create a bag for. This would mean players have to first carry these materials in their limited inventory, taking up potential bag slots.

Another, though simpler, idea I have is for the player to have a quest book or journal, where they must manually type things down themselves. I really love games that you need paper and pen for and I've often thought that the idea of having to write information and any quests down yourself would be a cool way to make the game more interactive and immersive. To make the feature more interesting I've come up with some more ideas around it. Each page of your journal would have a limited character space, with a title and page number, and there would be a contents page showing the title of pages written in. The journals would have page limits, and you would be able to buy or find different journals with varied styles, sizes, page lengths, and maybe some other differentiating features I have yet to think of. I also like the idea that this journal can serve as your map, maybe you find little pieces of maps that you can stick onto pages, and this idea could be extended to any sort of note your given by characters (maybe they'll hand you directions on a note or a rough hand drawn map). For some quality-of-life features, you'd be able to write during talking with characters of the game (if I decide to include some sort of talking at all), there would be a way to scribe text from one journal into another (maybe you pay some monk to do it). All of this gives the player a lot of freedom in how and what they want to write down and, before I've demoed it, I think that's a good thing.

I would also like the demo to eventually include other common RPG features, such as fishing, cooking, hunting, and combat, each of which I'd like to have their own innovative systems that enrich the experience.

My main inspirations for this demo include **Outward**, for its classic RPG style and bag system, **Tunic**, for its innovative map and puzzles, **Skyrim**, no RPG can avoid being inspired by it, and also every other game I've ever played and probably games I've yet to play.


ok my small ambitions were too ambitious
i tried one tutorial, got a moving character, remembered i hate tutorials, and realised i was indeed quite out of my depth, as i knew i would be, but too far out of my depth to begin this project, as i did not know i would be
i've realised i need to start smaller
but i don't want to watch tutorials and blindly follow them, copying what someone else is doing, i want to figure it out myself, create something myself, that's how i learn
my project idea was creatable with my knowledge of programming and previous game design knowledge, but not in a game development engine, something i'm completely foreign to
so i need to start smaller
and start with lots of smaller things, and get my feet wet
only once a man has wet feet can he get his body wet
for this i will create a new project to wet my feet, containing progress on learning Godot and much smaller projects to focus small amounts of time on
littler demos that i can play and that are hopefully fun
i want to create lots of things, lots of fun things, this is naive for two reasons: they will be fun (unlikely, not very experienced), i will create lots (unlikely, attached and shit)
but small demos
demonstrations of ideas
get better at the engine, get better at pixel art, get better at the process, until eventually i can make my rpg demo
so for now, i will be making progress on another page

OK change of plan.
I began with downloading Godot and started following a tutorial for getting a character and getting it moving. During this process, I remembered that I hate tutorials and that they don't help me learn as much as just trying does.
Although I have enough experience to create this demo in my head, I underestimated the learning curve for using a game engine. I theoretically could continue with this project, following tutorials until I wrap my head around the engine, but I've realised (as I often realise) that I hate following tutorials. A much more effective way to learn for me is to try to do something myself and look for specific help when I inevitably get stuck. For this it can be in the form of making lots of smaller games, projects, and demos, ultimately getting my feet wet in game making and in the engine until I'm ready to try this demo again. This, hopefully, will not take very long. I want to focus on executing small ideas quickly, creating little snippets of varied gameplay mechanics that should teach me the necessary skills. All these small ideas will be put on one project page. Once my feet are wet, I'll return to this project. 

This is all hopeful, as we've just seen how little time it can take to realise an idea won't work.

ideas for small games:
- town builder
- 


never mind not too ambitions
I've remembered I hate following tutorials, but got character moving
going to try and use the godot docs pages themselves

maybe too ambitions
every small thing i want to do has a lot of depth and complexity
shiittt
start new project
follow godot docs guideline
we'll be ok??

hmm could put more personal things on a new page
favourite pictures?
inspirations / thanks?
music taste
thoughts